All right, so
now we have the last part of this,
which is the making this responsive piece.
All right and
the way we're gonna break this up was
we're gonna break it into two parts.
So first of all, we're simply going
to make this go side by side.
We have an image and we have our text.
That's all we need to do,
with the image next to the text.
And so to do that, there's a lot of
different methodologies out there for
putting two things side by side like this.
One methodology would be to use Flexbox,
and
that would work just fine in
this particular situation.
The other approach is called CSS Grid, and
this is an even newer technology for
doing layouts than Flexbox.
It seems to me that in a lot of coding
boot camps, we spend a lot of time on
Flexbox, which is often leveraged
by Bootstrap and Tailwind.
And lots of other responsive design
frameworks make heavy use of Flexbox, and
Grid's sort of this afterthought.
Now you can also use Grid, [LAUGH] and
we don't really differentiate well
between these two layout methodologies.
But I will tell you this right now,
one of the things that Grid does
that Flexbox does not do is Grid can
overlap two cells on top of each
other,.Flexbox cannot do that.
The best Flexbox can do is put
two cells next to each other, but
they will never overlap.
Given that we are headed in this direction
of eventually overlapping these two
particular items,
we are going to use Grid for
our layout because then we
can overlap these two items.
And we can do that very,
very efficiently with Grid.
So, if you don't know Grid, that's okay, I
will sort of talk you through the process.
And it's covered extensively in my course
here at Front End Masters on Flexbox and
on Grid.
So the first thing that we need
to do before we do anything else,
is we need to manage our parents and
our children when it comes to our HTML.
And because the way
these layouts are done,
we're going to have some kind of parent,
where we're going to declare display Grid.
Here we're gonna declare, display Grid.
We've previously been doing display Flex,
now we're going to do display gGrid.
Then we need to have, as children of
that particular element, only two items.
We need to have all of our text,
that's one item, and our image,
that's the second item, that way we
can manipulate those things in space.
So given the fact that we have
lots of text, we have headings and
we have paragraphs, and
we have lists and all kinds of things,
we're gonna need some sort of element
to group all of that text together.
So we have one thing that we can move
in space with all that text as a unit.
And then we have the image,
that's the other unit that
we're going to move in space.
So let's just take a quick
peek at what we're doing here.
There's our image inside of the article,
so we'll have our article become
our parent, and then what we need to
do is wrap around all of this text,
we need to wrap a div around it and
give it a class.
So then what we'll have is the article and
its two children, the image and the text.
So the way to set that up is as follows.
Right here inside of
the HTML to start with,
right after the article,
we'll say div with a class of text.
And you can indent everything accordingly,
And then slash div.
Okay, so just to one of the things you
can do here inside of code pan is you
can collapse bits of code.
So I'm gonna do that now just so
this looks a little bit clearer to you.
So you have your article,
there's your div with your class of text,
all the text is inside of that div.
And then after that we have our image,
okay?
So that's the first thing to do.
Once that's in place, then we can jump
into our CSS and write some code for this.
So what we're gonna say
here then Is at media,
Min width, 550 pixels.
So basically,
if the screen is 550 pixels wide or wider,
then these are the styles
that are gonna take priority.
What we have here right now,
this is awesome,
that is what we wanna see on a mobile
device, phone, a phone type of screen.
This is what we're going to see, now
we're gonna write these styles just for
the desktop.
And here we're going to say article, And
we're going to say display Grid.
Okay, nothing will happen, that's okay.
All right, the thing about Grid, if you've
not worked with it before, Grid not
only works in one dimension like Flexbox,
where you have a whole series of boxes.
Grid works in two dimensions,
we have columns and we have rows.
So what I want to have is I wanna
have my two items side by side.
So I wanna have one column that has the
image, one column that has the text, and
I want those side by side and
they're basically about the same size.
So the way that I do that is I say Grid,
hyphen template,
hyphen columns, one fr one fr.
Now, that's pretty weird-looking notation,
what does that mean?
So what that means is we're
going to have two columns.
Hello Grid,
we're gonna have two columns, and
I want them to be one fraction
of the screen-wide each.
Okay, so you do the math,
Grid, I don't care,
the screen is two fractions wide, and
each item gets one of those fractions.
Now as you can see here we immediately
have a problem, and that is that this
image is taking up most of that width
of the screen, why isn't it scaling?
The reason why is up here
in our generic styles,
so I'm gonna go up here around line 56,
57.
Our images are currently displaying at the
widths that they are natively assigned.
That's how big the images, and so
that's how big it is on the screen.
We are gonna change that,
we're gonna say image has a width of 100%.
And this is a small hack that will allow
your image to scale on the screen.
So it will become larger, it will become
smaller depending on where it is in space.
And so now that I've done that,
now those two things are a little
bit more evenly sized, okay?
So very fake responsive images.
All right, scroll back on
down to my other styles here.
So continuing on a back around line 244,
continuing on with my
article style here,
we can also give this a regular old gap.
One rung and so that will give us the
space in between the image and the text.
And one of the things that you might
notice about this is that we have these in
the wrong order.
What we wanna have is,
we wanna have the image on the left and
the text on the right.
So there's two solutions to this problem.
One would be to switch
the order in the HTML.
But the problem with that is if we switch
the order of the HTML, what will happen is
that you will encounter the picture
first followed by the text.
And what I'd like people to
do is see the text first and
then the image on my mobile device.
So that's not gonna be
appropriate solution here.
Instead, what I'm going to do is I'm
gonna make use of the order property,
And we can put that on text,
my class of text.
And we'll say order 2, okay, so
that just flips those right over.
So now we have the image on the left and
the text on the right
because I said order 2.
So by default the image doesn't have
an order property assigned to it,
so it will come first.
And then lastly,
I can say text align right.
Because that's an inherited property,
that'll cascade through every all of
the text that's there on
the right side of the screen, and
everything will automatically shift right.
Pretty awesome, except for
that HTML, CSS and
SVG, which is still over
on the left-hand side.
Why is that?
Because that was our list that
we use Flexbox to display.
And remember that we had that set to
have our justify content of Flex Start.
And that's exactly what it's still doing.
It's at the start of that particular row.
So what we'll need to do in our
media query then is say here for
projects UL,
our justify content will be Flex and
just go to the end of the row
instead of the start of it.
We're almost there, isn't this exciting?
Projects look amazing.
It's beautiful, the colors are beautiful,
the spacing is good, you can do this.